Congratulations for making it so far.
This has been a lot of heavier stuff.
Next up, we're actually gonna kind
of build some stuff together.
It's easiest to do this with
something like StackBlitz.
So if you go to the course website,
you'll see under Building an App.
Now we can go and build an app and
solid generally we have a couple
of ways to get started.
One, the most common one is
we just have templates and
these are built using Vite, most of
our ecosystem's been built with Vite.
We have support for
Rollup and Webpack as well.
But Vite is where all our
starter templates are.
And then we also have starter
kind of meta framework similar to
something like Spell Kit or Next.js that
we're gonna look at a little bit later but
for now we're just gonna keep it simple.
And StackBlitz like luckily has
a very easy way to get started
with solid literally https://solid.new.
And I love this, it starts up so quickly.
It's just like Bam.
So solid.new and
we can get to building an app.
So here we are.
This is a very simple example that we
put in the base template here, very
much inspired by an old project to create
React app where twe had a spinning logo.
And you can get an anatomy for
a basic solid project.
We have our vite.config which
uses our solid plugin and
a few other settings that are specific
to some can make StackBlitz work here.
We have an index html which is
essentially the root of our project.
We just add a script tag that
links to our source route and
then we're pretty much good to go.
This is just the HTML of our page.
And we can call it whatever we want.
This is Solid App, maybe Solid ToDo App.
We're gonna need do to do MVC
because it is admittedly a very good
way of showing specifically the
granularity of how solid projects work.
Right now I just saved
my first file change so
it actually forked it into my own account.
And then inside the project for
now we have some logos, but
the key part is we have an index
which is kind of our entry point.
We haven't had to worry too
much about this so far.
But essentially,
this is where we call our render app call.
And we've mounted to this root element.
In the example earlier, I just passed
app straight in because it's fine.
It's the important thing to know
is that solid's render function
takes a function that then does JSX
passing components fine here as well.
But it's important though,
that it's a function.
And the reason for
that again is the laziness.
We need to make sure that we
set all the proper stuff for
rendering so that basically that
our root is inside and effect.
So the whole system works.
So again, it's the everything is
a function theme you see here.
And what's great about Vite is stuff like
CSS is taking care of us very easily.
You just literally import it.
And like we're essentially off
to the races so to speak, right?
We can just put our CSS directly in here,
mess with it and we can see the impact.
Inside our specific example here,
we're actually playing a bit.
We have index CSS which is normal CSS, and
then we have CSS modules so
that you can also do that approach.
This little demo, it's very basic.
It just puts the spinner on.
But there's on save,
there's hot module reloading and
all the typical stuff
you expect from Vite.
So this is a pretty simple example and
we're gonna use this shell
of foundation to kinda
build on in order to continue
to build our Todo app.
So what are we gonna do first?
Well, I think the first
thing I'm gonna do just so
I don't forget it later because
I always forget the stuff later,
is I'm gonna grab some of that CSS we
need specifically for the Todo app.
And there is a resource folder
in the course site where
I actually have the index html and
the index CSS.
The index html honestly
doesn't have much in it.
We probably don't actually need it
running from this example
because it already works.
But the index CSS,
it's worth grabbing this.
So let's do that, okay.
All right, so copy the index CSS into
the index CSS file in your project, okay?
All right, and then
I'm gonna do a little something
maybe unconventional here.
We'll do some more TypeScript later, but
to keep our first foray into JavaScript
a little simpler, I'm gonna actually
rename this extension to jsx.
It just it'll make my life a little
bit easier right now with it's fine.
We'll get to TypeScript soon enough but
I'm going to just clear that out and
to apps,
I'm gonna kind of blank slate
actually this whole section.
We still need our app obviously but
I'm gonna just wipe this out and
basically return nothing.
We're gonna get back to the basics and
if I save all this and this thing is still
working which of course we should
have a blank page, beautiful.
And just a sanity check
that it's a blank page,
that it's our page,
I'm gonna add an h1 here.
Good you see hot module reloading
working in this environment.
Hello, okay, so we're sanity check,
we are in fact building a solid app.